# Liquidity Providers

Every time there is a trade in a Mistral pool, the pool automatically collects a portion of that trade.

The fee is collected in the token making the initial swap: for example, on a trade KLAY-->MSRL, the pool will collect a small amount of KLAY. Fees are set depending on the assets in the pool. You can find more about trading fees structure [here](https://app.gitbook.com/o/ejhSoQDDsCsUD7o6Itvk/s/riurf5v1s63ePRkLXbsZ/\~/changes/fysCr2GxowKPl4U4Rc9O/mistral-features/fees).

## Trading fees collection

Each **Mistral Pool automatically collect fees.** Fees generated by the trading activity are then distributed in the following order:

50% of the fees collected through trade and flash loan protocol fees will be used to distribute veMistral users with the sKLAY token (yield generating KLAY).&#x20;

30% of protocol fees will be used to build a diversified DAO controlled LP treasury that will act as a solid tailwind for future growth.&#x20;

The remaining 20% will be kept by the team to fund continued development and infrastructure costs.

20% of Revenue generated from boosted pools are also taken by the protocol 50% of which is used to buyback and burn the governance token and 50% is sent to the treasury for further developments.

## How does a pool determine the price of tokens?

In general the AMM logic determines the prices that traders pay. For example, Weighted Pools, use a constant product formula and Stable Pools, use a StableSwap formula.

## How does the self-balancing index fund work?

Mistral allows for the creation of self-balancing index funds. Instead of paying a portfolio manager to continuously rebalance the fund, as investors do with an ETF, liquidity providers collect fees as traders rebalance the trading pools. This works because market actors are incentivized to rebalance the portfolio to take advantage of arbitrage opportunities.&#x20;
